[MUSIC]
This week we are going to review
a series of financial formulas built
directly into Excel.
Excel has become a very powerful
financial calculator that
can function to fulfill
many people's unique needs.
From financial modeling, stock analysis,
loan and bond calculations, to much more.
During this section we are going
to explore a small portion of
Excel capabilities and go over some
of the most commonly used formulas.
I encourage you to review the financial
drop-down under the Formula ribbon
to get a better sense of the full
range of capabilities that Excel has.
The first two formulas we're going
to review are common tools in
business modeling.
That could be either company valuations,
project reviews, investment supports,
etc., and are cornerstones of finance.
The first is net present value.
For those needing a quick finance
refresher, net present value, or
NPV, is the value of future dollars,
in terms of today's dollars,
discounted based on a given discount rate.
I very frequently see this used to value
a series of cash flows beyond year one.
The formula consists of two main parts,
the discount rate and
the selection of values to discount.
It's important to keep in mind that
the first value being discounted
is assumed to be the end of the first
period, and will be discounted one time.
Other things to keep in mind
are values need to be equally spaced.
Values need to be input
in the proper order.
The first value will be discounted one
time and the second value two times.
You can have up to 254 values or periods.
Positive cash flows will
be positive numbers, and
negative cash flows will be negative.
The second function we will review is IRR,
or internal rate of return.
This formula works to
calculate the discount rate
that would return an NPV of zero.
Or in other terms,
what is the highest discount rate that
would still return a positive NPV?
The formula consists of two portions.
First, the series of values, and
the second is a guess at what
the interest rate will be.
This is used to help speed up
the calculation based on the iterative
calculation methodology that Excel uses
to come up with the discount rate.
I tend to guess something with
a mid discount rate of around 5%.
Similar to the NPV,
we have a few things that we need to
keep in mind when using this formula.
Values must contain at least
one positive value and
one negative value to calculate
the internal rate of return.
IRR can't be calculated when values
become positive and then return negative.
We will get a better feel when we
use these calculations in practice.
We will introduce the third and
fourth formula when we are done
working with NPV and IRR.
For problem 1A, we're going to calculate
the IRR to FitCore's new super product.
Let's look at the data given to us.
We are given revenue and expense from 2017
to 2021 for a new product being launched.
Using this information,
we can glean the overall profit.
During our work, we generally work with
cash flows instead of accounting profit.
But for this exercise,
we're going to assume they're the same.
All right,
let's return to the working tab.
First, let's open
the Formulas ribbon using our
keyboard shortcut Alt+M for
finance formulas.
I would encourage you to review
the rest of these on your own to
get a sense of what formulas exist.
For now, to avoid using the Wizard,
I'm going to hit Escape,
and then just type =NPV.
The first value which is required
will be the discount rate,
which we are given in E11.
Second, we will now select the profit from
2017 to 2021, found on the data sheet.
If you notice,
the first value is at the end of year one,
assuming the current year is 2016.
If this was not the case and
we had a value for 2016, we would not
want to discount that cash flow, and could
simply add it on the end of the formula.
However, since this is not the case,
we can hit enter and
get our answer of $46.49.
Our first result assumes
the given discount rate.
However, I may be curious
about other discount rates and
how high my cost of capital or
discount rate could be,
still allowing this project to
have a positive investment thesis.
To do this I would use the IRR function.
First I would type =IRR, and then select
the same values from the dataset.
Please notice that the cash
flows start with a negative and
then transition to a positive value
without returning back to the negative.
If, in 2020, the profit, for
example was -50 instead of 50,
we would not be able to use this formula.
Second, I am going to guess
a discount rate of 5%.
Our answer is 36%,
a very high discount rate.
I frequently use these formulas
together after building out complicated
Excel models to help value and
determine different investment thesises.
Now why don't you give it a shot
using TaxiEat's cash flow to better
understand their investment thesis.
[MUSIC]